So now that we had a detailed look at how we can create autonomous web components by extending HTML element,
let me also show you that alternative way which I mentioned, where you can create web components by basing
them on specific built-in components or HTML elements I should say.
And for that, I will create a new component, I'll create it in a new Javascript file which I'll name
confirm-link.js. Now in there,
I will create a new class and I'll name this ConfirmLink as well
and here, I want to extend the HTML anchor tag element.
Now the HTML anchor tag element belongs to the a HTML element,
so to this href
here. Now here, we could be forwarding the user to Google.com, Google and obviously if we wrote
this and we click this link, we are forwarded to that page.
Now the idea is that we wrap this in our own web component or that we create a web component based on
that anchor tag which still has all the functionalities of the built-in anchor tag,
so which still takes the ref attribute and forwards us but which in addition asks us if we really want
to go there before redirecting us
and this is a use case you could certainly have on a webpage where you want to have links leading to
external resources where you want to ask the user before really, well forwarding the user.
Now for that here in ConfirmLink, I'll add the connected callback right away,
don't need the constructor really right now,
just want to have that callback and there, I want to register a click listener on this element,
so on the anchor tag which I am in the end extending here. We could set up a shadow DOM here and
that is really important.
I'm not doing it here because I don't need it but when extending a specific element, you can use all
the same features we used here in the tooltip. So you can attach a shadow root,
you can add your own template,
you can do all these things here too. Here
I just happen to not need anything of that, I want to keep all the default look and behavior and all
of that,
I just want to add an extra click listener and I do that here in the connected callback by adding an
event listener and by adding it directly to the this keyword, I add it to my custom element which extends
this built-in element and I add my click listener here and when this click happens, then I will execute
a function
and here, I will use an ES6 arrow function which takes an argument,
the default event object which will be created by the Javascript engine, by the browser so to say
and then here, I have that function body which gets executed.
Now we could also assign some method of this class which you create here
but here I want to keep it really simple,
I just have this function which gets executed upon a click and what I want to do here is I want to check
if confirm,
confirm is a method or a function built into Javascript, it's a globally available function, where I ask,
do you really want to leave?
And if this is yes, then confirm or if the user clicks yes, then this will return true.
If this is not the case and hence an exclamation mark,
so if the user clicks cancel or doesn't confirm this, then I want to stop the default behavior,
I don't want to forward the user. And therefore on the incoming event object, I can call prevent default
to suppress the default behavior which would be to, well basically redirect the user to the target of
the link which would be the default behavior of an anchor tag. Now with that created, we just need to define
it.
So again we'll use custom elements in there, the define method and just as before, we now choose our own
selector, our own tag for that element and just as for the tooltip, we still should use a name which
has a dash in it and which also has some unique prefix.
So here I'll again use uc and then confirm link for example.
The second argument then is our ConfirmLink class here which extends the HTML anchor element,
so just as before but now since we don't extend HTML element but this specific HTML element, the anchor
element and that would be the case no matter if we extend the anchor or a paragraph or an image or whatever
it is, whenever we extend a specific element and not that generic HTML element,
so whenever we have such a specific element, we need to pass a third argument here which is an object
where I set extends to the tag of the element we extend,
in this case it's an anchor element,
so we have to use the a tag here.
So our custom element extends the built-in anchor tag, the a element.
And now with that, we can go to the index.html file and in there, I first of all want to import
this, so I will copy that import and add an import to confirm-link.js
and now at the bottom here, instead of my anchor tag like this, I want to use my custom element.
Now when extending a built-in element, you don't use your custom element as you did before by placing
your own tag here,
instead you keep the original tag,
so the anchor tag, the a tag but you add a new attribute, the is attribute and the value of that attribute
now is your custom selector here.
So that is how you use a web component or a custom element based on a built-in element, like the anchor
in this case.
So now I say is uc-ConfirmLink on the anchor tag and with that, if I now save this and I reload
that, when I click this link, I get asked if I really want to leave.
If I click cancel, then I stay here because if I click cancel, we basically execute this code and we prevent
the default
hence the navigation is canceled.
If I click OK instead,
then we proceed as before and that is pretty cool
This is a cool example for how you could extend a built-in element, keep all its style and all its functionality,
though as I mentioned, you could replace for example the look by adding your own shadow DOM and your own
template
but here, I'm just adding a little bit of functionality to all of a sudden have a brand new element based
on that original built-in element.